Instagram User Analytics

Description:
User analysis is the process by which we track how users engage and interact with our digital product (software or mobile application) in an attempt to derive business insights for marketing, product & development teams.
These insights are then used by teams across the business to launch a new marketing campaign, decide on features to build for an app, track the success of the app by measuring user engagement and improve the experience altogether while helping the business grow.
You are working with the product team on Instagram and the product manager has asked you to provide insights on the questions asked by the management team.


A) Marketing: The marketing team wants to launch some campaigns, and they need your help with the following

1. Rewarding Most Loyal Users: People who have been using the platform for the longest time.
Task: Find the 5 oldest users of the Instagram from the database provided

SQL Statement -

SELECT *
FROM users
ORDER BY created_at
LIMIT 5;




2. Remind Inactive Users to Start Posting: Find the users who have never posted a single photo on Instagram

Task: Find the users who have never posted a single photo on Instagram

SELECT username
FROM users
LEFT JOIN photos
    ON users.id = photos.user_id
WHERE photos.id IS NULL;



3. Declaring Contest Winner: The team started a contest and the user who gets the most likes on a single photo will win the contest now they wish to declare the winner.

Task: Identify the winner of the contest and provide their details to the team

SELECT 
    username,
    photos.id,
    photos.image_url, 
    COUNT(*) AS total
FROM photos
INNER JOIN likes
    ON likes.photo_id = photos.id
INNER JOIN users
    ON photos.user_id = users.id
GROUP BY photos.id
ORDER BY total DESC
LIMIT 1;




4. Hashtag Researching: A partner brand wants to know, which hashtags to use in the post to reach the most people on the platform.

Task: Identify and suggest the top 5 most commonly used hashtags on the platform

Solution 

SELECT tags.tag_name, 
       Count(*) AS total 
FROM   photo_tags 
       JOIN tags 
         ON photo_tags.tag_id = tags.id 
GROUP  BY tags.id 
ORDER  BY total DESC 
LIMIT  5; 



5. Launch AD Campaign: The team wants to know, which day would be the best day to launch ADs.

Task: What day of the week do most users register on? Provide insights on when to schedule an ad campaign

SELECT 
    DAYNAME(created_at) AS day,
    COUNT(*) AS total
FROM users
GROUP BY day
ORDER BY total DESC
LIMIT 2;





B) Investor Metrics: Our investors want to know if Instagram is performing well and is not becoming redundant like Facebook, they want to assess the app on the following grounds

User Engagement: Are users still as active and post on Instagram or they are making fewer posts
Your Task: Provide how many times does average user posts on Instagram. Also, provide the total number of photos on Instagram/total number of users
Solution 

SELECT (SELECT Count(*) 
        FROM   photos) / (SELECT Count(*) 
                          FROM   users) AS avg; 


                             avg
                             2.57


       Total Images on Instagram

              SELECT COUNT(image_url)
               FROM photos;


              COUNT(image_url)
               257


       Total Number of User 

              SELECT COUNT(username)
              FROM users;

               COUNT(username)
               100









2  Bots & Fake Accounts: The investors want to know if the platform is crowded with fake and dummy accounts
Task: Provide data on users (bots) who have liked every single photo on the site (since any normal user would not be able to do this).
Query 

SELECT username, 
       Count(*) AS num_likes 
FROM   users 
       INNER JOIN likes 
               ON users.id = likes.user_id 
GROUP  BY likes.user_id 
HAVING num_likes = (SELECT Count(*) 
                    FROM   photos); 
